---
layout:     post   				    # 使用的布局（不需要改）
title:      Raft				# 标题 
subtitle:   "an Understandable Consensus Algorithm"          #副标题
date:       2019-12-19				# 时间
author:     Jqy					# 作者
header-img: img/wallhaven-oxw2mp.jpg 	#这篇文章标题背景图片
catalog: true 						# 是否归档
tags:								#标签
    - Distribution
    - Paper
---
​	The primary goal of the raft is to find a more understandable consensus algorithm than traditional Paxos,which is in a domination but unfortunately hard to realize in praticle.

Serveral novel features:

* Strong leader:e.g:log entries only flow from the leader to other servers.
* Leader election:Raft uses randomized timers to elect leaders.
* Membership

## Replicated state machines

​	Replicateds state machines are used to solve a variety of fault tolerance problems in distributed systems.They're typically implemented using a replicated log.

The consensus algorithm's job is to keep replicated log consistent.Once cmmands are properly replicated,each server's state machine processes them in log order.The algorithm for a praticle system typically follow these features:

* Safety(under non-Byzantine conditions)
* Available
* Do not depend on timing to ensure the consistency of the logs.
* A command can complete as soon as a majority of the cluster has responded to a single round of RPC.

## The shortcoming of Paxos

Two significant drawbacks:

1. Hard to understand.
2. Doesn't provide a good foundation for building praticle implementations.

## The Raft consensus algorithm

Raft is an algorithm for managing a replicated log in replicated state machines.

Given the leader approach,Raft decomposes the consensus problem into three relatively independent subproblems:

* Leader election
* Log replication:The leader must accept log entries from clients and replicate them across the cluster.
* Safety:If any server has applied a particular log entry to its state machine,then no other server may apply a different command for the same log index.

### Raft basics

At any given time each server is in one of three states:*leader,follower*,or

*candidate*.

Raft ensures that there is at most one leader in a given term

Raft servers communicate using RPC,and the basic algorithm requires two types:

1. RequestVote RPC
2. AppendEntries RPC

### Leader election